                        vyAI Social Commons 1.1
                      Version 1.1, 01 August 2025

 Copyright (C) 2025 vyAI, a division of Vytruve Organization.
               <https://vytruve.org/licenses/vyai-social-commons-1.1.html>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
 document, but changing it is not allowed.

                             Preamble

The vyAI Social Commons 1.1 License is a free, open-source license designed to
ensure the software remains accessible for social and community projects, while
restricting its use in purely commercial software products.

This license grants the freedom to share, modify, and use the software for a
wide range of applications, including integration into physical hardware
products. However, it prevents the software from being sold as a standalone
product or offered as a commercial "Software as a Service" (SaaS). This approach
aims to foster innovation in the physical world and support community-driven
initiatives, without allowing the core software to be monetized directly.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution, and modification
follow.

    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. Applicability.

This License applies to any copyrightable work designated by the copyright
holder as licensed under the vyAI Social Commons License, including but not
limited to software, documentation, datasets, and models.

1. Definitions.

"This License" refers to version 1.1 of the vyAI Social Commons License.

"The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

A "covered work" means the unmodified Program or a work based on the Program.

To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties to
make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer network,
with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

"Software as a Service (SaaS)" refers to any model where a covered work is
hosted by a party and made available to third parties over a network. This
includes, but is not limited to, offering access via an Application Programming
Interface (API) or other remote means, where the core functionality or primary
value provided to the end-user is substantially derived from the covered work.

"Physical Product" refers to a tangible, physical hardware item (e.g., robots,
wearables, custom devices) that is sold to an end-user and in which the Software
is embedded or integrated.

2. Basic Permissions.

All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright on
the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work.

You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.

3. Verbatim Copies.

You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it,
in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each
copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating
that this License applies to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of
any warranty; and give all recipients a copy of this License along with the
Program.

4. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce it
from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 3,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it,
       and giving a relevant date.
    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
       under this License.
    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
       anyone who comes into possession of a copy.

5. Commercial and Service Restrictions.

    a) Prohibition on Direct Sale: It is strictly prohibited to sell, rent,
       lease, license, sublicense, or otherwise monetize access to the
       Program or any covered work as a standalone software product.

    b) Prohibition on Providing as a Service: You may not offer the Program
       or any covered work as a "Software as a Service" (SaaS), Platform as
       a Service (PaaS), or Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). This restriction
       applies to any service whose primary value or core functionality is
       derived directly or indirectly from the Program, including services that
       provide access to the Program's features via an API or other remote
       interface for a fee.

6. Exception for Physical Products and Ancillary Services.

Notwithstanding the prohibitions in Section 5, you are permitted to create,
manufacture, and sell Physical Products that incorporate, use, or are controlled
by the Program or a covered work.

The commercial transaction must be for the sale of the Physical Product itself.
The Program must function as an integrated feature of the hardware. The perceived
value and marketing of the product must be centered on the hardware, with the
Program acting as a supporting feature. The cost to the end-user must not be
presented as a license fee for the Program.

You may offer paid support, installation, or consulting services related to the
Program or a Physical Product without violating this License, provided these
services do not involve the direct sale or licensing of the software itself.

7. No Sublicensing.

This License is not a sublicense. If you receive a copy of the Program, you
receive a license directly from the original licensors, subject to the terms and
conditions of this License.

8. Compatibility with Other Licenses.

> Works licensed under this License may be combined with works licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3 (GPLv3), provided that the combined work is licensed under the GPLv3. However, the restrictions in Section 5 of this License continue to apply to the original work.

9. Additional Terms.

"Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License by
making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable law.

If you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it.

10. Termination.

You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License.

However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and
until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license,
and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the
violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

11. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy of
the Program. However, nothing other than this License grants you permission to
propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe copyright if you do
not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or propagating a covered work,
you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so.

12. Disclaimer of Warranty.

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.

13. Limitation of Liability.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY
COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM AS
PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE PROGRAM, EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

14. Interpretation of Sections 12 and 13.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above cannot
be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts shall
apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all civil
liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption of
liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

      How to Apply This License to Your Works

To apply this License to your work, attach the following notice to the top
of each source file or in a prominent location like a `LICENSE` or `README` file.

    Copyright (C) [Year] [Name of Author or Organization]

    This work is licensed under the vyAI Social Commons License, Version 1.1.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at:
    
    https://vytruve.org/licenses/vyai-social-commons-1.0.html
    
    This license allows for free use, modification, and distribution in social
    and community projects, and for integration into physical hardware.
    It prohibits the direct sale of the software and its use in commercial
    Software as a Service (SaaS) offerings. See the license for the full
    terms and conditions.
